Welcome back wonderful God people in this video.
We're going to tidy up our code a bit.
And the reason is I want to show you if I open the play a script we've got quite a lot of things happening
now.
We have moved things into their functions.
But this script is doing more than one thing and it's handling play a movement where the actual play
is animation what the player Sprite looks like.
That's not very elegant.
So what do you mean when we say code is or isn't elegant.
Here's some tips for elegant code because it's quite a slippery concept.
First off and we've mentioned this before your code should be readable by a human.
Machines can handle most things but it's very hard to quickly understand where code is going wrong or
how to use someone else's code or just pick up code you wrote a while back.
If it's not really easy to read I should get a glance at it and understand what each thing does.
Secondly one script should be in charge of one thing.
There's two parts of that right.
First off do not have multiple scripts doing the same thing.
So if I've got the player script home player movement and then I've got something else affecting player
movement that said Jump pad and something else up.
Changing player movement on I don't know.
A laser beam that's going to be confusing everything that affects player movement should be in one script.
The other side of that is don't have one script doing multiple things.
If the player script does player movement it shouldn't keep track of lives.
It shouldn't keep track of animation.
It shouldn't keep track of sound effects.
If we go back into the player script how would we do this.
Well I've got all this information here made animated Sprite animated Sprite animated Sprite and it's
all repeating itself.
So what I'm going to do is inside the play a scene.
I'm not going do it.
In level one I would do it in the play a scene in click right here on the little film cracker thing.
I'm going to create a new script on animated Sprite so new script and I'm in it to make sure it's not
in scenes it's in scripts because I need to give a finesse and many sprites on a great name I someone
call it player animation.
Play animation Dungey.
And I don't need any comments.
And when we create it there it is.
So we now have two scripts going on and it's easier just to go over here and close the kinematic tuti
thing and I can switch between the scripts here.
I don't want to run something on the physics frame.
And the reason is I'm already doing a physics process here so every time the physics process techs do
these calculations I don't want to keep doing that.
The more I add here the morning slow the game down.
So instead I'm to create a brand new function and I call it update.
So every time I ask you to do something I need you to update it.
We need to pass information from the player script through to player animation.
Well luckily we already have some information ready to pass.
This motion thing should work great.
So let's create a new function in player to pass information across the.
We could do this in physics process but animation doesn't really require physics right.
I don't need to calculate how things are interacting moving I just need to every frame check if I'm
animating So underneath Asics process I am going to put.
Function process.
That's a built in thing.
It already has Delta.
And what do we want to hear what's in it.
Updates animation.
I guess we have the animation.
Let's put that.
Well just here really it's a great place to put it.
Function update animation.
Make sure I've spelt that right which I haven't.
And what does that need to do get the script from the child unknown which is animated sprites and it
needs to update.
I'm going to update motion now.
It's worth noting though when that value comes in here.
Animated Sprite or player animation doesn't care what this value is.
It'll take whatever that value would be but it's not going to check.
Is this the actual motion.
I could actually call this something else.
I call it Bob and it would work fine player dog edhi the player script knows what this value is.
We've defined it in the script.
It's just going to come in with values with a with a variable such a quick motion just keep it machine
readable and it's going to do stuff.
In order for this to work.
I actually need to call this without motion.
So every frame we're going to run process with update the animation.
We're going to go into up the animation and just see what has to happen and it's going to crit it's
going to run this function.
What needs to be in this function.
Well we have most of this right.
All I'm going to do is check what the motion value is.
If motion dot x is greater than zero.
In other words if you are moving right.
Then we're going to play what you know what I don't need to just write all this.
I can just take it from here can't I I'm a cut that if the player is physically moving right.
If the motion value the x of the motion value is greater than zero play run and don't flip and l.f.
and upset your life.
Nope.
X is less than zero.
This spacing is more readable and I'm going to cut it from here.
I don't have to cut it like a duplicate of the place but if I cut off from here I know it's gone.
OK so what happens if you're not doing else.
I don't actually need to keep putting these other things in right.
Either you are moving right or you're moving left so if you're not moving right.
You're not moving left.
Just play idle.
And that can disappear.
OK.
Already the run function is a lot easier to read because all I'm looking at as a human style person
is when I press right and I'm not pressing left just change the motion and if I'm pressing laughter
not right just change the motion.
Otherwise go this way before we go anywhere and I copy and paste stuff.
This isn't going to work right.
We're in animated Sprite and this dollar sign means check a childhood.
And I mean it's bright.
No don't do that.
So remember when you're copying pasting make sure you keep an eye out for your actually copy and pasting.
Our computers always do what you tell them to do.
Not what you want them to do.
So now it's Pressplay.
Dad are left and right.
So now we have basic information being controlled by the player animation script and we have play movement
being help both play a script.
What I'd like to do is animate the jump.
We have a jump animation and I'd like to put that in.
Which brings me to the challenge for this video.
I would like you to make bungee jump while in the air.
So if you're not on the ground you should be jumping.
Pause the video and when you come back I'll show you my solution.
Welcome back.
So there's a few different ways we can do this but the first thing I do is I'm going to give this priority.
Okay so the very first thing you need to check is if you are jumping What do we need to do.
Well if motion dot why.
Is smaller than zero.
We're going to do and to play jump.
Let's see how that works out.
If we are moving up.
Jump.
And it's as simple as that.
Let's talk about what I just did.
So why smaller than.
Well remember the chordettes we looked at in the last video.
Negative.
Why is up positive why is down.
This can be counterintuitive if you're used to normal geometry the way we would normally right this
as human style people positive y for me mentally is up but it's got a positive y is down.
So if the Y value is less than zero in other words if that direction I am moving in the linear velocity
if my direction is up Jup if it's not start falling.
Right before we finish off one more piece of tidying.
I don't need all this in physics process remenham I'm saying this has to be machine readable.
I actually have a little trouble reading everything physics process so we have this update information.
Why don't we make update motion.
Past delves into this and I'm going to create a function.
Make that tidiane and then call it function updates motion with Delta coming.
OK.
When the colon in there.
So now we have on the physic process.
Update motion and on the non physics process just process update animation.
Let's move animation down a little.
Now that's actually fineries is thing on the talk about is a kind of gloss over this last time we are
calling for.
With Delta and if we go down to fall I can use this menu here and go to the full function.
You'll see that motion dot y plus equal so every frame.
Add gravity times Delta that you might remember that we are using move and slide here and move and slide
has Delta built in.
So really what we're doing is motion dot y plus equals gravity times Delta times Delta or gravity times
Delta squared.
Why are we doing that well simply because we're not moving we're accelerating and accelerating is speed
times.
Time squared.
Which brings us to the end of the video.
So great work in this video.
We've looked at how to make sure you're keeping your code elegant by making sure every script is focussed
on one task and also making this readable by human style people and how the enemy will jumping so phenomenal
stuff and are seen in the next video.